RFD template (#1)
zinc-sig/affairs: rfd/templates/prototype.md

# [RFD] Enable Widgets in Product

> ---

Reviewer: Metadata must be put at the first line of the Markdown file.

authors: David Mak, Kristopher Lam
state: prediscussion
discussion:
labels: process
---

> 

Reviewer: It's probably best to add where you gotten/adapted this template from.

The RFD begins with a brief overview. This section should be one or two paragraphs that just explains what the goal of this RFD is going to be, but without diving too deeply into the "why", "why now", "how", etc. Ensure anyone opening the document will form a clear understanding of the RFDs intent from reading this paragraph(s).

> ## Background

Reviewer: Please add line breaks before and after each header.

The next section is the "Background" section. This section should be at least two paragraphs and can take up to a whole page in some cases. The guiding goal of the background section is: as a newcomer to this project (new employee, team transfer), can I read the background section and follow any links to get the full context of why this change is necessary?

If you can't show a random engineer the background section and have them acquire nearly full context on the necessity for the RFD, then the background section is not full enough. To help achieve this, link to prior RFDs, discussions, and more here as necessary to provide context so you don't have to simply repeat yourself.
## Proposal
The next required section is "Proposal" or "Goal". Given the background above, this section proposes a solution. This should be an overview of the "how" for the solution, but for details further sections will be used.

> Abandoned Ideas (Optional)

Reviewer: Missing line break between this and the previous line; Otherwise "Abandoned Ideas (Optional)" will be treated as a continuation of the paragraph on the previous line.

This section is effectively the "implementation" section for the user experience. The goal is to explain the changes necessary, any impacts to backwards compatibility, any impacts to normal workflow, etc.

As a reviewer, this section should be checked to see if the proposed changes feel like the project in question. For example, if the UX changes are proposing a flag "-foo_bar" but all our flags use hyphens like "-foo-bar", then that is a noteworthy review comment. Further, if the breaking changes are intolerable or there is a way to make a change while preserving compatibility, that should be explored.
## [Example] UI
Will this RFD have implications for the web UI? If so, be sure to collaborate with a frontend engineer and/or product designer. They can add UI design assets (user flows, wireframes, mockups or prototypes) to this document, and if changes are substantial, they may wish to create a separate RFD to dive further into details on the UI changes.
## Style Notes
All RFDs should follow similar styling and structure to ease reading. "Beautiful is better" is a core principle of HashiCorp and we care about the details.
### Heading Styles

> "Heading 2" should be used for section titles. We do not use "Heading 1" because aesthetically the text is too large. Google Docs will use Heading 2 as the outermost headers in the generated outline.

Reviewer: Is Google Docs relevant to our RFD process?

"Heading 3" should be used for sub-sections.

Further heading styles can be used for nested sections, however it is rare that a RFD goes beyond "Heading 4," and rare itself that "Heading 4" is reached.
#### Lists
When making lists, it is common to bold the first phrase/sentence/word to bring some category or point to attention. For example, a list of API considerations:

> Format should be widgets
> Protocol should be widgets-rpc
> Backwards compatibility should be considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Format** should be widgets
- **Protocol** should be widgets-rpc
- **Backwards compatibility** should be considered.
```

I think this better highlights the point to bold the first phase/word.

> #### Typeface

Reviewer: Same here, we will be using Markdown so the font/type family shouldn't really matter. The only important matter here IMO is the "typeface customization" part.

Type size should use this template's default configuration (11pt for body text, larger for headings), and the type family should be Arial. No other typeface customization (eg color, highlight) should be made other than italics, bold, and underline.
#### Code Samples

> Code samples should be indented (tab or spaces are fine as long as it is consistent) text using the Courier New font. Syntax highlighting can be included if possible but isn't necessary. Please ensure the highlighted syntax is the proper font size and using the font Courier New so non-highlighted samples don't appear out of place.

Reviewer: Same here, font issues shouldn't really affect us, apart from needing to use triple-backtick code blocks for code samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code samples should be indented (tab or spaces are fine as long as it is consistent) text using single- or triple-backticks for code-block formatting. Syntax highlighting can be included if possible but isn't necessary.
```

This section is effectively the "implementation" section for the user experience. The goal is to explain the changes necessary, any impacts to backwards compatibility, any impacts to normal workflow, etc.

As a reviewer, this section should be checked to see if the proposed changes feel like the project in question. For example, if the UX changes are proposing a flag "-foo_bar" but all our flags use hyphens like "-foo-bar", then that is a noteworthy review comment. Further, if the breaking changes are intolerable or there is a way to make a change while preserving compatibility, that should be explored.

## [Example] UI
Will this RFD have implications for the web UI? If so, be sure to collaborate with a frontend engineer and/or product designer. They can add UI design assets (user flows, wireframes, mockups or prototypes) to this document, and if changes are substantial, they may wish to create a separate RFD to dive further into details on the UI changes.

## Style Notes
All RFDs should follow similar styling and structure to ease reading. "Beautiful is better" is a core principle of HashiCorp and we care about the details.

### Heading Styles

> "Heading 2" should be used for section titles. We do not use "Heading 1" because aesthetically the text is too large.

Reviewer: I think we will be using Heading 1 for the RFD title but nothing else?
